[Dx 961] Refactor Planning For Production Page To Link To Distributed Analytics FAQs (#4033)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/planning-for-production.md

### Analytics Optimisations

> If using a Redis cluster under high load it is recommended that analytics are sent to distributed Redis shards. This can be configured using the *analytics_configenable_multiple_analytics_keys* parameter and following the process explained in this **[FAQ - PR #4018]**. Furthermore, analytics can also be disabled for an API or selected endpoints, as explained in this **[FAQ - PR #4032]**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using a [Redis cluster](https://redis.io/docs/management/scaling/) under high load it is recommended that analytics are sent to distributed Redis shards. This can be configured using the *analytics_configenable_multiple_analytics_keys* parameter and following the process explained in this **[FAQ - PR #4018]**. Furthermore, analytics can also be disabled for an API or selected endpoints, as explained in this **[FAQ - PR #4032]**.
```

> If using a Redis cluster under high load it is recommended that analytics are sent to distributed Redis shards. This can be configured using the *analytics_configenable_multiple_analytics_keys* parameter and following the process explained in this **[FAQ - PR #4018]**. Furthermore, analytics can also be disabled for an API or selected endpoints, as explained in this **[FAQ - PR #4032]**.

Reviewer: It is not good for SEO to use "this"

> If using a [Redis cluster](https://redis.io/docs/management/scaling/) under high load it is recommended that analytics are sent to distributed Redis shards. This can be configured using the *analytics_configenable_multiple_analytics_keys* parameter and following the process explained in this **[FAQ - PR #4018]**. Furthermore, analytics can also be disabled for an API or selected endpoints, as explained in this **[FAQ - PR #4032]**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using a [Redis cluster](https://redis.io/docs/management/scaling/) (in Tyk Self managed, with Hybrid Tyk Gateways or Tyk OSS) under high load it is recommended that analytics are sent to distributed Redis shards (instead of just one of the shards). This can be configured using the *analytics_configenable_multiple_analytics_keys* parameter and following the process explained in this **[FAQ - PR #4018]**. Furthermore, analytics can also be disabled for an API or selected endpoints, as explained in this **[FAQ - PR #4032]**.
```

Reviewer: maybe remove the FAQ wording, merge and add it later?

Author: If this suggestion is ok with you then I will merge. and will add later:

```suggestion
If using a [Redis cluster](https://redis.io/docs/management/scaling/) under high load it is recommended that analytics are sent to distributed Redis shards. This can be configured by setting the [analytics_config.enable_multiple_analytics_keys]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#analytics_configenable_multiple_analytics_keys" >}}) parameter to true. Furthermore, analytics can also be disabled for an API using the [do_not_track]({{< ref "tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/api-definition-objects/other-root-objects" >}}) configuration parameter. Alternatively, tracking for analytics can be disabled for selected endpoints using the [do not track endpoint plugin]({{< ref "advanced-configuration/transform-traffic/endpoint-designer#do-not-track-endpoint" >}}).
```

> In Tyk Gateway, using [protobuf]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration/#analytics_configserializer_type" >}}) serialisation, instead of msgpack can increase performance for sending and processing analytics. Please note that *protobuf* is not currently supported in MDCB environments.

Reviewer: can you please add an external link to msgpack

Author: updated

> In Tyk Gateway, using [protobuf]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration/#analytics_configserializer_type" >}}) serialisation, instead of [msgpack](https://msgpack.org) can increase performance for sending and processing analytics. Please note that *protobuf* is not currently supported in MDCB environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### protobuf Serialisation
In Tyk Gateway, using [protobuf]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration/#analytics_configserializer_type" >}}) serialisation, instead of [msgpack](https://msgpack.org) can increase performance for sending and processing analytics. 
<br/>
**Note:** *protobuf* is not currently supported in *MDCB* deployment.
```

> If using Tyk Cloud platform under high load, it is also recommended that analytics are stored within a local region. This means that a local Tyk Pump instance can store the analytics within a localised data sink, such as PostgreSQL or MongoDB. In this scenario the hybrid pump will be bypassed across the *Control Plane* and *Data Planes*, thus reducing load since no analytics traffic is sent across regions.

Reviewer: @dcs3spp I do not understand this sentence:
>  "In this scenario the hybrid pump will be bypassed across the *Control Plane* and *Data Planes*, thus reducing load since no analytics traffic is sent across regions."

Author: @letzya Updated sentence to read:

> This will reduce load since analytics traffic would not be sent across regions.

Author: > cant see this sentence. please check again
> 
> > In this scenario the hybrid pump will be bypassed across the _Control Plane_ and _Data Planes_, thus reducing load since no analytics traffic is sent across regions.

https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-docs/pull/4033/commits/6dcf721739bbd005b19c6acab54c04ae5e229394

### Analytics Optimisations

If using a [Redis cluster](https://redis.io/docs/management/scaling/) under high load it is recommended that analytics are distributed among the Redis shards. This can be configured by setting the [analytics_config.enable_multiple_analytics_keys]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration#analytics_configenable_multiple_analytics_keys" >}}) parameter to true. Furthermore, analytics can also be disabled for an API using the [do_not_track]({{< ref "tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/api-definition-objects/other-root-objects" >}}) configuration parameter. Alternatively, tracking for analytics can be disabled for selected endpoints using the [do not track endpoint plugin]({{< ref "advanced-configuration/transform-traffic/endpoint-designer#do-not-track-endpoint" >}}).

#### Protobuf Serialisation
In Tyk Gateway, using [protobuf]({{< ref "tyk-oss-gateway/configuration/#analytics_configserializer_type" >}}) serialisation, instead of [msgpack](https://msgpack.org) can increase performance for sending and processing analytics. 
<br/>
**Note:** *protobuf* is not currently supported in *MDCB* deployment.

> If using Tyk Cloud platform under high load, it is also recommended that analytics are stored within a local region. This means that a local Tyk Pump instance can store the analytics within a localised data sink, such as PostgreSQL or MongoDB. This will reduce load since analytics traffic would not be sent across regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using Tyk Cloud platform under high load, it is also recommended that analytics are stored within a local region. This means that a local Tyk Pump instance can send the analytics to a localised data sink, such as PostgreSQL or MongoDB (no need for the hybrid pump). This can reduce traffic costs since your analytics would not be sent across regions.
```
